>> David Khourshid: Welcome to
the State Management at Scale workshop at
Frontend Masters.
My name is David Khorshid and
I'll be your instructor today.
So, first of all, what do I mean
by state management at scale?
Does it mean llike lots of users,
a thousand components,
or like just a million lines of code?
And actually scale, at least when we're
talking about state management at scale is
isn't really about size.
It's actually all about maintainability
and iteration speed as your app evolves.
So the questions that you
have to ask yourself are,
can you add features without
breaking existing ones?
Can your team members contribute
confidently to your code base and
can you actually debug issues quickly?
So that's what I mean by scale.
And so by the end of today,
after this workshop,
you're going to have patterns that scale
on hopefully all three dimensions.
First of all, features.
So you want to be able to add new
functionality by extending your code base
and not modifying too
much if you can help it.
You also want to have a good understanding
of the code base for your teammates,
because usually when you're working
on a big project, it's not just you,
you're working with your teammates.
And so you want to have everyone
coding in a very similar way,
preventing merge conflicts and more
importantly, preventing confusion, whether
you're new to the code base or you've
been coding in it for many, many years.
The third one which I'm going to really
focus on in this workshop is complexity.
And so that's state management
that you can debug and understand,
especially as you add features,
change features, fix bugs, et cetera.
All right, so first of all,
who is this workshop for?
This workshop is for React developers,
and honestly, any sort of a front end
developer, whether you're working in
React Vue, Angular, doesn't matter.
But our focus today is going
to be on a React next JS app.
But the idea is that we're going to be
going beyond the basics of React state
management.
You probably already know your basic
hooks, such as use date, use effects,
use reference, and you might know
the other hooks too, like useContext,
useReducer, and maybe you've used some of
the other ones like UseMemo, et cetera.
And you have worked in large or small
React applications, some of which are in
production, and some of them you might
have been using React for a while.
So you might have legacy code
bases that use class components or
hopefully newer ones that use
hooks instead of classes.
And you attending this workshop,
you've worked with a team and
most of you have gone through honestly,
like all of these common struggles of
managing states in a large application.
So you might have tried state
management libraries or
maybe you've invented your own solutions.
I've seen a lot of code bases
where basically they said,
we're not going to use a third
party state management library.
We're going to either try to use
react hooks as much as we can, or
we're going to try to build our own thing.
And even those sort of end up
in disaster in the long run.
You have also felt the pain with
dealing with an ever growing number of
features and bugs in your application.
And maybe you have run into things like
the dreaded infinite loop and use effect.
I know I have lots of times, or even
worse, when you have a lot of multiple
chain use effects and
you're like, okay, there's a bug.
I don't know what is causing this.
So you have to sort of debug
every single use effect and
see what is causing
the other one to trigger.
And it sort of feels like a Rube Goldberg
machine instead of a state machine.
And it becomes just near
impossible to debug.
And so we're going to be
talking about that later too.